Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. a formal language that contains a set of instructions that can be used to produce specific outputs by a computer.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

A. jdk, java development kit, including JRE (java runtime environment) and tools for developing, debugging and monitoring
java application.

What is IDE?
A. integrated development environment, provides comprehensive facilities to software development.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Ecliipse, Intellij.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. java source code is written in a text editor, saved as .java file, it is compiled with a java compilier, java bytecode
is generated as a .class file, java bytecode can be run in a java virtural machine (JVM) located on different platform.

what is class?
A. class is a blue print or template for objects, it contains variables and methods with a collections of attributes and
methods defining the behaviour of an object..

What is object?
A. object is instance of class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. the static void main class.

Why main is static?
A. it is the entry point, can be directly called by JVM before any object is instantiated.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. path is environmental variable for OS to find executables; classpath in java is used by java compiler to find path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface contains only abstract methods; Abstract class can contain both implemented and abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. NO. you can implement interface, extend Abstract class -- inheritance.

what is Access Specifier?
A. used to controll the visibility of variable/method/class.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP, object-oriented programming. we mainly use 4 features of java OOP, abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism.
Abstraction: hiding coding details, mostly implementation, detailing from outsiders.
Encapsulation: hiding data from others by binding object with method.
Inheritance: allows child class to inherit all properties of parent class, it is a code reusing.
Polymorphism: an object can take on many forms, including compiling time polymorphism, overloading, and runtime polymorphism, overriding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.a java package is a grouping namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang.* is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API, application programming interface, is a collection of software functions and procedures, called API calls,
that can be executed by other software applications. we haven't use any of them so far.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. java does not support multiple inheritance, if it does, multiple parent classes could have the same method but different implementation,
and the child class does not know which to use.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. in the same class, the same method name has different parameters, it happens in compiling time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. exceptions in java is error/problem but not fatal, instead of terminating the whole program, java can use try/catch to handle the exception.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. static keyword means this variable/method belongs to the class, not the object. It can be called by the class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final variable cannot be re-initialized, final method cannot be overridden, final class can't be inherited.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final variable cannot be re-initialized, final method cannot be overridden, final class can't be inherited.
finally, contain a block code after try/catch, the statements inside this block will run no matter exceptions occurr or not.
finalize, garbage collector call before destroy/deletion to clean up activity that objects, closing the resources associated
with that object like Database Connection, Network Connection or we can say resource de-allocation.

What is a constructor ?
A. constructor is used to initilize an instance/object state. It has no return type, not considered as a member of the class,
not a method.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. instantiation with default initial values;

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this means the current class.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. 'super' used in a child class refers to the parent class. you can use with variable, constructor, method.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine, part of JRE, an abstracted computing machine allows the computer to run java program.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. no, it is platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
A. 1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR, java archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK, java development kit.  JVM, java virtual machine, that runs the java bytecode.  JDK contain JRE(Java Runtime Environment) and development tools.
JRE is the implementation of JVM, it contains JVM.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE, java runtime environment, is the implementation of JVM, it contains JVM.

What is compile time and run time?
A. compile time is the time when the java compiler convert the java code into bytecode that the machine can recognize and execute.
run time is the machine execute the bytecode.

What is heap?
A. heap is runtime data area from which memory for all instances and arrays are allocated. Heap is created during JVM start up.

How java manage it's memory?
A. java use stack and heap, stack memory store local variables and function call, heap memory stores objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable, StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable, StringBuffer is thread-safe while StringBuilder is not.

What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class has the constructor set as private, so only one single object can be instantiated.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is the process to convert an object to a sequence of bytes that can be persisted to a disk or database, or sent
through a stream. Deserialization is the reverse of serialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. when you don't want to serialize this object.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while check the condition first then execute if condition is true; do/while will execute at least once first, and then
check the condition to decide if continue.

What is Enum?
A. Enum is a special data type that enable an variable to a series of pre-defined constants.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is used to in collections to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer, it is a class.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Because string is widely used as parameter in many java class, mutable string will cause security problems.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. call one constructor from another constructor is called constructor chaining, for example, calling child class constructor
containing a parent class constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Both serial and parallel garbage collect stop application during GC, serial GC use only one thread, parallel GC use multiple threads.

What is JIT stands for?
A. JIT "Just In Time" compiler.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Garbage Collection clean up unused objects to free more Heap space (memory).

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. NO, JVM will decide based on space availability in heap memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. both are memory, when object is created, the object is stored in heap, the reference of the object is stored in stack.
Heap space is used by JVM to allocate memory to objects and JRE classes. Stack memory is used to execute threads.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection in java is a API, it can be used to examine and modify the behavior of objects, methods, class, and interface during runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A. A thread is a smallest unit of processing, multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Java use monitor to enable thread synchronization so that when multiple threads are running simultaneously, but only one thread
has the access to certain resource at a given time to avoid conflicts.

What is Framework?
A. Framework is a large body of pre-written code that you can use to add your code to solve problems in specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. TestNG, JUnit for unit testing; selenium, cucumber for web application testing.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Both are similar unit testing framework, testNG is inspired by jUnit and a little more powerful than jUnit.
testNG include dependency test, which jUnit does not include.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Dependency means one method is depending on another one. In this project, ConnectDB is the dependency of all others that need to use DB.

what is dependency injection in java?
A. A testing frame that is able to create an instance of the class and inject the object into the defined dependencies for testing.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. static binding happen during compiling time for overloadded methods, dynamic binding happen during runtime for overridden methods.








